balenaSound 3.0 (#270)
balenalabs/balena-sound: docs/02-usage.md

# Usage

After your device finishes downloading the application, you should be ready to go! 

> Before starting make sure to connect the audio output of your device to your Hi-Fi or speaker system. Remember we support multiple [audio interfaces](../docs/audio-interfaces) if you are interested in improving the audio quality of your setup be sure to check it out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting, make sure to connect the audio output of your device to your Hi-Fi or speaker system. Remember that we support multiple [audio interfaces](../docs/audio-interfaces). This is helpful if you're interested in improving the audio quality of your setup-- be sure to check it out.
```

* If using Airplay: select the balenaSound device from your audio output options.
* If using Spotify Connect: open Spotify and choose the balenaSound device as an alternate output.
* If using UPnP: select the balenaSound device from your UPnP app like [BubbleUPnP](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bubblesoft.android.bubbleupnp) (Android) or [JuP&P](https://apps.apple.com/app/jup-p-upnp-player-und-fernbedienung/id1069722311) (IOS).

The `balenaSound <plugin> xxxx` name is used by default, where `xxxx` will be the first 4 characters of the device UUID in the balenaCloud dashboard.

Let the music play!

## Modes of operation

balenaSound supports multiple modes of operation described below:

- Multi-room mode
- Multi-room client mode
- Standalone

By default, most devices will start in multi-room mode. You can change that by setting an environment variable, check out the [customization](../docs/customization#general) section to learn how.

**Note:** Multi-room mode is the default mode for most (but not all!) device types. You can read more about default modes [here](../docs/device-support#recommended).

### Multi-room mode

> Multi-room mode allows you to play perfectly synchronized audio on multiple devices, it turns balenaSound into a "Sonos-like" multi-room solution. It doesn't matter wether you have 2 or 100 devices, you only need them to be part of the same local network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multi-room mode allows you to play perfectly synchronized audio on multiple devices, it turns balenaSound into a "Sonos-like" multi-room solution. It doesn't matter whether you have 2 or 100 devices, you only need them to be part of the same local network.
```

When in multi-room mode devices can take one of two roles: 
- `master`: the device acting as the audio source
- `client`: any number of devices playing back the audio being sent over by the `master`

> Designing a `master` device is easy and requires no configuration. Whenever you start streaming to any device in multi-room mode it will autoconfigure itself to be the `master` device and will broadcast a message to all other devices within your local network to get them in sync. Note that it can take a few seconds for the system to autoconfigure the first time you stream. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Designing a `master` device is easy and requires no configuration. Whenever you start streaming to any device in multi-room mode, it will autoconfigure itself to be the `master` device and will broadcast a message to all other devices within your local network to get them in sync. Note that it can take a few seconds for the system to autoconfigure the first time you stream. 
```

## Plugin system

balenaSound has been re-designed to easily allow integration with audio streaming sources. These are the sources we currently support and the projects that make it possible:

| Plugin | Library/Project |
| ------ | ------ |
| Spotify | [raspotify](https://github.com/dtcooper/raspotify/)<br>Spotify Connect only works with Spotify Premium accounts.<br>If you have a Spotify Premium account, you can stream locally without any configuration.<br>If you want to use Spotify Connect over the internet, you'll need to provide your Spotify credentials. See [customization](../docs/customization#plugins) section for details. |
| AirPlay | [shairport-sync](https://github.com/mikebrady/shairport-sync/) |
| UPnP | [gmrenderer-resurrect](https://github.com/hzeller/gmrender-resurrect) |
| Bluetooth | balena [bluetooth](https://github.com/balena-io-playground/bluetooth-primitive/) and [audio](https://github.com/balenablocks/audio) blocks |
| Soundcard input | Experimental support through the balena [audio](https://github.com/balenablocks/audio) block. Check the [customization](../docs/customization#plugins) section to learn how to enable it. |

> If your desired audio source is not supported feel free to [reach out](../docs/support#contact-us) and leave us a comment. We've also considerably simplyfied the process of adding new plugins, so [PR's are welcome](../../contributing) too (be be sure to check out our balenaSound [architecture](../../contributing/architecture) guide)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your desired audio source is not supported feel free to [reach out](../docs/support#contact-us) and leave us a comment. We've also considerably simplified the process of adding new plugins, so [PR's are welcome](../../contributing) too (be be sure to check out our balenaSound [architecture](../../contributing/architecture) guide)!
```

## Audio interfaces

> balenaSound supports all audio interfaces present on our [supported devices](../docs/device-support) be it 3.5mm audio jack, HDMI, I2C DAC's or USB soundcards. We rely on [balenaLabs' audio block](https://github.com/balenablocks/audio) to do the heavy lifting configuration required for this to work. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
balenaSound supports all audio interfaces present on our [supported devices](../docs/device-support) be it 3.5mm audio jack, HDMI, I2C DAC's or USB soundcards. We rely on [balenaLabs' audio block](https://github.com/balenablocks/audio) to do the configuration required for this to work. 
```
